For our final project, we wanted to create a program that was more difficult than our previous one but also included the aspects we liked about Stack. Because of this, we decided to incorporate user input into our project again this time through the form of head tracking. We also chose to use Python to do this as it was newer to us and allowed us to hone our skills beyond just what we learned in class. In the end, we decided to create a 3D world that a user could maneuver through with their head movements. To do this, we first showed a webcam which allowed the user to press C to calibrate their head position when straight and then calculated head position based off their offset from that position. The application then takes the user to the 3D world we created and allows them to move their head up, down, left, right, forwards, and backwards to move similarly through the world. Though this project was very challenging, It taught us a number of skills from using AI coding agents to how to understand new packages and their given functions. 

Through this project, we learned how to convert our more advanced Matlab skills into python through better understanding the syntax differences between the languages. Further, we understood how to implement user camera input rather than just keypresses like in our previous project. We also were able to understand worldbuilding in Python and how to create a detailed graphic world using a complex package without a wrapper. Additionally, we were able to see how Github as a tool transcends coding languages and is used similarly for collaboration regardless of whether we’re coding in Matlab or Python. Using an AI coding agent was also a new skill we gained as balancing our own vision and skills with the efficiency that the Cursor agent provided us was challenging at first. 

The biggest challenge we faced when coding this project was with developing the 3D world. We originally intended to use Ursina which is a wrapper for Panda3D as the functions for Panda3D are not intuitive and include a lot of extra code. Ursina made that easier by simplifying the syntax ont he user’s end and making it more representative of what the functions were actually doing. However, we encountered several issues with the package as our coding environment was not fully compatible with the package no matter which version of Python we downloaded or where we moved the folder. Thus, we transitioned to just using Panda3D where the functions and syntax were much more convoluted. This made it so we had to restart our worldbuilding and also use a program that was much more difficult to understand, however we were able to create a world we were happy with in the end. 

Our biggest triumph was running the final product for the first time. Because we were working towards our head movements moving the 3D world, we were excited to try that out for the first time. Seeing our head movements vaguely influence the movement of the 3D world was satisfying, though we had to continue to tweak it for increased accuracy. 

Finally, our biggest “aha” moment was when we figured out how to implement the arithmetic for the head tracking. Understanding the logic behind the inequalities in relation to the dx, dy, and dz movement allowed us to have the program accurately show direction when our head was moving to that corresponding side. Also, figuring out how to make the labels more accurate for “looking _______” was an aha moment as well. We manipulated the speed, points tracked, sensitivity, etc. until we made it as accurate as possible.

Overall, we really enjoyed building this project and felt that we were able to challenge ourselves. Thank you!!

Attached is a link to a QR code video of us using our code!

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q4WZ2smgZLGYXSvv1yYSbvaryaUj0u_dDUEVym3cuLs/edit?usp=sharing


Progress Updates 
	Progress Update Week 1 : 
Chase ← Dots on face for pre-calibration, in order to find prominent landmarks on face and using min/max confidence detection found the main landmarks on the face (Ex: Eye, Nose, Mouth) 
Made able to detect when face was / not present 
Added press C to calibrate face button 
Nainika ← Selected dots on top, bottom, left, right of face and tracked size of difference between points to determine when face was moving left, right, up, down, forwards backwards
Debugged code to make this determination more accurate.
Needs to be fixed ← Calibration is still not fully accurate for moving up/down … need to fix next week the up / down and figure out in order to figure out how to make more accurate 

Progress Update Week 2: 	

Chase 
Fixed debugging issue from before (with measuring difference between vertical points on face as well as horizontal ones) 
Familiarized Self with Ursina packages to include a brief map (Added Roads using the model = plane functions after Nainika’s codes)
Nainika 
Familiarize self with Ursina packages in order to build a mock-sky and mock-ground 
Started to build first building through utilizing model = “cube” and position and scale parameters to make the correct size and location for world
Together
Issue we ran into
Had an issue with Ursina setup in our coding environment so we had to create a new file in a separate location on our computers and then create a container and rewrite the code there. Then we rewrote the current files in our repository.  


	Progress Update Week 3-4: 

Chase 
Familiarize self with Panda 3D packages and translated our 3-D world from before into new syntax - essentially created a new world that was more efficient to run on our computers 
Debugged code “moving.py” in order to better connect the two files of the 3D world with head tracking 
Nainika 
Debugged syntax from Panda 3D package - changed building colors from the provided colors in the packages to solid colors. 
“Moving.py” code in order to have  baseline connection of the two files in the 3D world with head tracking 
Together 
Issue we ran into 
Ran into an issue where we pressed “command d” instead of “command s” to save our progress which removed the terminal and created a black screen. discovered that Ursina packages was not fully supported on our computers so had to restart 3D world map using Panda 3D. We solved this by using th Panda 3D packages and we had to create a new file in a separate location on our computers and then create a container and rewrite the code there 

Timeline for Coding
April 22nd - Met to outline our ideas for the head tracking and basic plan for the 3-D world as well as created files on Curse for program Coder + Debugger = Chase and Nainika (3 hours) 
April 23rd - Created a calibration screen camera for pre-calibration. Added dots on face to find prominent landmarks on the fake using min/max confidence detection (Ex:Eye, Nose, Mouth) ← Coder = Chase (6 hours)... Debugger = Nainika (5 hours)
April 24 - Difference between points on top/ bottoms and left/right to determine when face is moving left/right/up/down/fowards/backwards ← Coder = Nainika (4 hours)... Debugger = Chase (2 hours)
April 25 - Made able to detect when face was / not present and made it so that the “press C” function on the keyboard calibrates the face from a baseline position ← Coder = Chase (5 hours)... Debugger = Nainika (4 hours)
April 26th - Spent time trying to figure out how to make the tracking more accurate ← Coder = Nainika (4 hours) … Debugger = Chase (3 hours)
April 28th - Fixes unresolved accuracy issue from before (now measures the difference between vertical points on the face and well as the horizontal points) ← Coder = Chase (4 hours) … Debugger = Nainika (3 hours) 
April 30th - Started to create gameplay screen by using Ursina packages including green ground and added roads (using model=plane functions) ← Coder = Nainika (4 hours) … Debugger = Chase (4 hours) 
May 2nd - Had an issue with Ursina setup in our coding environment so we had to create a new file in a separate location on our computers and then create a container and rewrite the code there. Then we rewrote the current files in our repository ← Coder = Chase (10 hours) … Debugger = Nainika (8 Hours) 
Note: This deleted our github repository so we had to create a new repository, which unfortunately got rid of our previous commits (Met with Bowen to help with this bug and was told it was okay that the commits were removed) 
May 3rd - Continued to add buildings in different locations ← Coder = Nainika (3 Hours) … Debugger - Chase (2 Hours) 
May 4th - Continued to add buildings in different locations ← Coder = Chase (3 Hours) … Debugger = Nainika (3 Hours) 
May 5th - Continued to add buildings in different locations ← Coder = Nainika (3 Hours) … Debugger = Chase (2 Hours) 
May 9th - Learned basic software in order to combine 3-D world gameplay screen with head tracking technology ← Coder = Chase (4 Hours) … Debugger = Nanika (3 Hours) 
May 10th - Finalized gameplay screen (adjusted colors on building, altered position, and fixed lighting), however ran into an issue where we pressed “command d” instead of “command s” to save our progress which removed the terminal and created a black screen. Tried to resolve / debug, but was not fully successful ← Coder = Nainika (6 Hours)... Debugger = Chase (5 Hours) 
May 11th - Met with Bowen to fix bug issue – fixed by using Panda 3D as opposed to using Ursina packages (discovered that Ursina packages was not fully supported on our computers so had to restart 3D world map using Panda 3D) ← Coder = Chase (7 hours) … Debugger = Nainika 7 hours) 
Note: This deleted our github repository so we had to create a new repository, which unfortunately got rid of our previous commits (Met with Bowen to help with this bug and was told it was okay that the commits were removed) 
May 12th - Finalized gameplay map using the new Panda 3D functions (Based the new code off of the previous Ursina world and altered it a bit), started to combine the headtracking with the 3-D world ← Coder = Nainika (7 Hours) … Debugger = Chase (5 Hours)
May 13th - Finalized head-tracking in our 3D world and altered code to look more presentable / readable. Also finished our github README and Repo ← Coder = Chase (3 Hours) … Debugger = Nainika (2 Hours) 
Chase = 68 Hours 
Nainika = 69 Hours 

Total Amount of Combined Hours = 137 hours
